Add commit message lesson (#23440)
TheOdinProject/curriculum: foundations/html_css/html-foundations/commit-messages.md

### Introduction

This lesson will explain the importance of good commit messages, how to write them, when to commit and why having a history of good commits is so important!

> ### Learning Outcomes
> 
> By the end of this lesson, you should be able to:
> 
> - Write a meaningful commit message
> - Understand why meaningful commit messages are important
> - Have a good understanding of when to commit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Lesson Overview

This section contains a general overview of topics that you will learn in this lesson.

- How to write a meaningful commit message
- Why meaningful commit messages are important
- When to commit
```

Slight change to bring this in line with the [new style guide](https://github.com/TheOdinProject/curriculum/blob/main/LAYOUT_STYLE_GUIDE.md).

Author: Add!

### Are commit messages so important they deserve their own lesson?

Yes! Let me give you a quick list of reasons why:

> - When you are applying for jobs, employers will look through your projects on GitHub and they will look through your commit history. Having good commits as a novice developer will make you stand apart. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When you are applying for jobs, employers will look through your projects on GitHub and they will look through your commit history. Having good commits as a novice developer will help you stand out. 
```
Nit for flow.

Author: Added

- Having a good commit message history will allow you (or other developers working on your code) to quickly see what changes were made and why. This is useful if a bug is found in the code that needs to be fixed!
- Having a good commit message history will also be helpful if you come back to a project you were working on after stepping away from it for a while. You likely won't remember your thought process and changes made when initially writing out the code. 

### How to Write a Good Commit Message

> This article, [How to Write a Git Commit Message](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/),  covers all the main bases on how to write good commit messages. The whole article is great and informative but the meat of the article is “The seven rules of a great commit message.”

Reviewer: I think this would be better as an assignment rather than just at the top of this section.

### When to Commit

A good way to view a commit is like a “snapshot” of your code at the moment that commit was made. That version of your code up to that point will be saved for you to revert back to or look back at. 

When writing code, it's considered best practice to commit early and often. Commit every time you have a meaningful change in the code. This will create a timeline of your progress and show that your finished code didn't appear out of nowhere.

> This means, make a commit if you get a line of code you are working on to function like you want it to, fix a typo, fix a bug, or when you are done for the day. 

Reviewer: I think we need to be careful not to set people up to be committing *too often*. It's a really hard line to draw for beginners. I'm not positive yet what I would want this line to look like, but I feel like this is a few notches into that "too often" territory.

I also think we shouldn't say for people to just commit when they're done for the day, unless they're actually at a good commit point i.e. the app isn't in a currently non-running state.

If you'd like me to come up with a proposal for how I think we should word this just let me know, also more than happy to try and workshop something.

Reviewer: Yeah, 28 is fine, GitHub just automatically selects a handful of lines to show as context when leaving a comment about a specific line.

I like that suggestion more. I think I would just want to also see something added stating that as the student gets more experienced they will get a better feel for what sort of things need to be committed through experience.

There will come a time when you are working on a project and you FINALLY get something just right (this would be a good time to commit), and then maybe 30 seconds to a few days later it breaks. You have no idea what you changed, everything *looks* to be the same and you don’t remember editing that line, but alas, it isn’t working how you want it anymore. You’d be able to go back through your commit history and either revert your code back to the last commit you made when you first got that part working or go back and see what your code looked like at that point in time.

### Tips and Things to Remember:

- Using VSCode as your text editor (you should have set this up in the Git Basics section) will allow you to easily make multi-line commit messages, easily see the character length of each line, and will allow you to use [VSCode spell check extensions](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=streetsidesoftware.code-spell-checker) to make sure your spelling is correct
- Use an active voice: "Fix card generator"
- Avoid using vague commit messages such as "saved" or "updated"
- Commit early and often!

> ### Knowledge Check

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Knowledge Check

This section contains questions for you to check your understanding of this lesson on your own. If you’re having trouble answering a question, click it and review the material it links to.

```

Another small edit to bring things in line with the style guide.

- What are two benefits of having well-written commit messages and a good commit history?

> - How many characters should the subject line of your commit message be?

Reviewer: Also per the style guide, we should probably have these be links to the relevant section/article.

### Lesson Overview
This section contains a general overview of topics that you will learn in this lesson.
- How to write a meaningful commit message
- Why meaningful commit messages are important
- When to commit

### Are commit messages so important they deserve their own lesson?

Yes! Let me give you a quick list of reasons why:

- When you are applying for jobs, employers will look through your projects on GitHub and they will look through your commit history. Having good commits as a novice developer will help you stand out. 
- Having a good commit message history will allow you (or other developers working on your code) to quickly see what changes were made and why. This is useful if a bug is found in the code that needs to be fixed!
- Having a good commit message history will also be helpful if you come back to a project you were working on after stepping away from it for a while. You likely won't remember your thought process and changes made when initially writing out the code. 

### Assignment 

<div class="lesson-content__panel" markdown="1">

> 1.  This article, [How to Write a Git Commit Message](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/), covers all the main bases on how to write good commit messages. The whole article is great and informative but the meat of the article is “The seven rules of a great commit message.”

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Read this [article about some of the commit message best practices](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/), which covers all the main bases on how to write good commit messages. The whole article is great and informative but the meat of the article is “The seven rules of a great commit message.”
```

</div>

> 

Reviewer: I believe that the assignment should come near the end of the lesson right before the knowledge check.

Author: I moved it down but put left "Tips and things to remember" after it since that is all stuff from that article

Reviewer: @thatblindgeye do you have any thoughts on this? from a style guide perspective? If we have additional first-party content that references the assignments is this the pattern we should follow?

Reviewer 2: As long as the post-Assignment content isn't something *necessary* for lesson completion (which in this case it isn't; it's just a "remember..." sort of section), I'd say this should be fine. 

The thing with the style guide is it should be a "lessons should follow this guide *as closely as possible*" sort of thing. Some lessons needing to deviate a bit like in this instance I think is fine, as long as it's nothing completely wild (like having the assignment come before the LO section or something).

If anything we could also add a post-Assignment section to the lesson layout (similar to how the project layout has), but since this may be more rare a thing my initial thought is we don't really *need* to (but that's just me).

### Tips and Things to Remember:

- Using VSCode as your text editor (you should have set this up in the Git Basics section) will allow you to easily make multi-line commit messages, easily see the character length of each line, and will allow you to use [VSCode spell check extensions](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=streetsidesoftware.code-spell-checker) to make sure your spelling is correct
- Use an active voice: "Fix card generator"
- Avoid using vague commit messages such as "saved" or "updated"
- Commit early and often!

### Knowledge Check

This section contains questions for you to check your understanding of this lesson on your own. If you’re having trouble answering a question, click it and review the material it links to.

*   <a class="knowledge-check-link" href="https://cbea.ms/git-commit/#intro">What are two benefits of having well-written commit messages and a good commit history?</a>

> *   <a class="knowledge-check-link" href="https://cbea.ms/git-commit/#wrap-72">How many characters should the subject line of your commit message be?</a>

Reviewer: One more thing, is this resource linked somewhere previously in the lesson and I'm just not seeing it?

Author: Yeah, its from  https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/. When you click the section links under "The seven rules of a great Git commit message" it takes you to that portion of the site. Idk why the URL changes, its still the same site
